>> Jen Kramer: So we are on to chapter 11,
and I call this one Grid Grid.
And the reason why is
if you go on ahead and
open up the beginning files here,
the grid.html files, and
go on ahead and display that in a browser,
we're back to pies again.
So you all are gonna remember
this from yesterday,
we coded this with floats,
we coded this with Flexbox.
Now we're gonna go through and code
this one more time, this time with Grid.
And the purpose behind that is, coding
the same thing three different ways, you
actually learn a lot about the advantages
and disadvantages of each type of layout.
So we can go ahead and do this together.
What I've given you for your starting
files are in the begin folder.
There's a grid.html,
and there's a grid.css.
Go on ahead and open up both of those.
And I believe what I did was
I copied over the, I think,
a lot of the code from the Flexbox
stuff that we did yesterday.
So let's just start by
editing our HTML here,
and let's work on row one, okay.
And we'll just start by editing the HTLM
and then we'll write some CSS for this.
So if you take a look here at row one,
once again it's the four boxes that
are all next to each other here in a row.
Right now all of these have
exactly the same class.
What would happen if we try
to display this with Grid
in a web page where I have four
items with the same class,
and then therefore the same grid
column and grid row dimensions?
What would happen?
>> Speaker 2: They'd be on
top of each other.
>> Jen Kramer: They're all gonna stack
on top of each other.
So we need to come up with a way
that we have individual classes for
each one of these articles.
[COUGH] And what I did was I fell
back to some really old coding
naming technology that we use
to use with tables, okay.
So some of you may not be old
enough to remember this, but
what we used to do was we would
call our classes something like,
r1c1, so that's row one, column one.
Okay, and that would refer to say
the upper left hand corner of your box.
So that's the technique that I've used for
naming these boxes,
because they're not anything special.
You can of course call them whatever
you want, just as always true in CSS.
So I'm gonna call this r1c1.
My second article then would be what?
>> Speaker 2: R1C2.
>> Jen Kramer: r1c2, my third article
would be?
>> Speaker 2: r1c3
>> Jen Kramer: r1c3, and
my fourth article would be?
r1c4, okay.
>> Jen Kramer: So
that's those first four
boxes here in our HTML.
And then if we flip over to our
CSS,
>> Jen Kramer: What we're gonna wind
up doing here is we're gonna come
on down to the wrapper here, and
we can go ahead and add to our wrapper.
>> Jen Kramer: So
we're probably gonna do
what here on our wrapper?
What are our properties gonna be?
>> Speaker 2: display: grid.
>> Jen Kramer: display: grid.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, and
maybe we'll have some kind
of grid gap of some amount.
>> Jen Kramer: Say two percent,
okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Now
the other thing that you're
probably gonna wanna do, and
you can do it right now where it says
grid system here, starting on line 34.
All this code that's here we're just going
to rip out the first two declarations,
the row and then that class col thing.
We'll rip those out.
And then you can keep
the background colors if you like,
the Martha Stewart colors.
What we'll wind up having
to do here is .r1,
>> Jen Kramer: c1, .r1c2,
.r1c3, .r1c4.
Or you can use some kind of fancy
attribute selector if you want, and
so that's one way of doing this.
And I guess I've actually
also could do it this way.
We could set up just our articles
since many of them are yellow.
We could set these up default as
the yellow background color, and
we can override those later
with other classes if you want.
That might be less typing.
Okay, down here on line
52 we have our reverse.
That flex direction stuff
doesn't fly with Grid so
we can just sort of go on ahead and
kill that reverse.
We actually don't need that at all.
>> Jen Kramer: And
then what's down here in the media queries
you can delete as well because we'll be
adding our own stuff to these.
>> Jen Kramer: So
for this first row then let's go ahead and
start with the desktop layout on that.
What we've done so
far is we've declared that we have,
our wrapper is gonna be a display of grid,
we have a grid gap of two percent.
And what we're going to do next is,
down here under the desktop,
let's on go ahead and add to this some
information about our layout, okay.
Then I'm gonna show you
a new way of typing this.
So obviously we could do exactly
what we have done in the past.
Which is we could set up all of those
classes, we could set up our grid rows, or
grid columns and our grid rows as to where
each one of these things is going to be.
But here's some other things
that we can do with this too.
.wrapper, what we're gonna do is this,
we're gonna call out our
grid template columns,
>> Jen Kramer: And
our grid template rows.
we're gonna do it with a different type
of syntax for calling these out, okay.
So the syntax that I'm gonna use is this,
repeat(4,1fr), okay.
Repeat, and then in parentheses, 4,1fr.
All right, so in the Mondrian examples,
when we called out our grid template
columns we had a number for each one of
those, in pixels in that particular case.
Which we're talking about
the columns widths and so forth.
In this particular case what we're saying
here is we would like to, obviously,
repeat what's inside of the parentheses.
So we're gonna have four columns,
that's what the number four refers to, and
then it's width is 1fr,
which looks like one french, right.
But it's not, it's actually one fraction.
So this is one of the incredibly
cool things about Grid.
If you think about working in floats or
Flexbox, we typically work in
the same units as we're working
on say the width of our page.
And so frequently my style is
I call out widths in percents.
So I have a percent width for my cell,
I have a percent width for my margin,
it all adds to 100%.
You don't like to mix those units, right.
We don't generally have pixels that we mix
up with percents that we mix up with m's,
it's just a disaster, right.
Then we're really not
sure what we're doing.
The cool thing about Grid is that Grid is
very able to mix up all of those units
as you're working across things.
So right now we already have
a grid gap of two percent,
and now I've thrown in this thing
called fr, so one fraction.
What does that mean?
We're gonna have four columns on the page,
so basically take whatever's
there on the page, figure in that two
percent width in between the columns.
And by the way, whatever is left over,
divide it into four pieces,
four fractions.
Isn't it great?
Finally, the browser is doing math for
you.
It's fabulous.
So the fr unit is a really powerful
unit that you can use here for Grid.
And you can, of course,
have as many fractions as you want.
We could have said eight fractions here
if we wanted, but with four columns, in
which case it would say those four columns
would each be eight fractions wide.
So the total width of
the page would be what?
32 fractions, right, 8 fractions called
out for the width times 4 of those.
Make sense?
You can have as many fractions or
as few fractions as you want.
And you can also have decimal fractions,
by the way.
So if you wanted to work your
whole page as one fraction,
then you wanted to work in fractions
of a fraction, you can do that.
So I can say 0.33 fractions or
whatever, 0.25 fractions.
Okay, so that's one of those, and then for
my template rows I'm gonna do
the same kind of thing again.
Repeat, in this case I have five rows, so
I'm gong to say five comma and then it's,
usually the next thing I specify is width.
I'm just gonna say auto.
We don't really have a strong feeling
about the dimensions on these rows, so
just whatever is there.
Take the content, make it all work, okay.
So auto is a great keyword also.
>> Jen Kramer: So far, so good?
Okay, so that’s what we need there
to figure out the widths and
the heights of our various columns.
All right, so
why don’t you take two minutes and
you’re gonna go ahead and
write the classes then for
r1c1, for the desktop dimensions r1c1,
r1c2, r1c3, and r1c4.
Go on ahead and write those out now,
the grid column and grid row values.
If we go on ahead and look at the webpage,
>> Jen Kramer: It
probably looks like this.
Yeah?
All right, so while we've
explicitly called out locations
at the desktop dimension for
these boxes, the first row of boxes,
the rest of them don't have any
classes associated with them.
And so what Grid has done,
as John's gone ahead and said, okay great,
you made all these spots for me.
I'll put one unit of content in
each one of those spots, awesome.
Right, and remember again,
this is a parent-child relationship.
So the parent is the wrapper, the children
are the individual articles, and so
that's what Grid is looking for.
It just looks for
all the children of the wrapper, and
it assigns each child one
spot here in the grid, okay.
Now, so given that it does that
automatically, why did we go through
our CSS and spell out exactly where
all of these things are located?
Anyone have any idea what
the thinking there is?
It seems awfully repetitive, doesn't it?
Well the reason why is because we're
gonna wind up placing those grid cells
in a different location when we
go to the media queries, right.
So if we were going to
go to our media queries,
we've started with just
the desktop dimension here.
We could actually move the wrapper
declaration here to the tablet,
because this is gonna hold true for
the tablet dimension and
the desktop dimension,
we're gonna have four columns.
And then our layout here
on the tablet is gonna change, right,
all these cells are gonna change position.
True?
So these are gonna go to 1/3 and
3/5, yeah.
Why am I not calling out the rows here?
>> Speaker 3: Auto.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah, it's very smart,
right, it's automatically, it's looking
at the source order of the HTML,
it's putting them in the order anyway.
So you can call out the row locations
if you wish, if that is helpful to you.
If you don't want to, it's what Grid is
gonna do by default anyway which is why I
haven't listed those here.
Make sense?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay,
>> Jen Kramer: So if we go in ahead and
save that.
>> Jen Kramer: And we can
refresh our page, and we're just looking
at that first row and it's behavior.
So when we narrow that up and
get to our break point,
somewhere along the way, there we go.
We get our two and two,
which is what we would expect, yeah.
Okay,
>> Jen Kramer: How
are you guys feeling about this so far?
Pretty straightforward?
Okay, yes, Peter?
>> Speaker 2: So what I did was I just I
changed the grid template columns to two-
>> Jen Kramer: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: And
one fr.
>> Jen Kramer: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Do you think it would
be more likely for
people to keep it the same-
>> Jen Kramer: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: All the code or
to change them up in the media queries?
>> Jen Kramer: You could absolutely do
that instead.
So what Peter is saying that he
did is his solution was this.
So he would have had in the desktop, he
would've had the grid template columns and
the grid template rows at four and
five, just like we said up here.
But then when you come up
here to the media query,
you said repeat.
>> Speaker 2: I just said two.
>> Jen Kramer: Two.
>> Speaker 2: And then I changed all
the columns.
So maybe it's not as efficient.
>> Jen Kramer: And
then you changed all the columns here?
Okay, so this would be like one, two.
>> Speaker 2: Two,
three.
>> Jen Kramer: And
this would be two, three.
Okay, so that's another possible solution.
I don't see a particular
advantage one way or the other.
It sort of like what make sense to you,
right.
My methodology is calling out
that grid template columns and
grid template rows once and
just changing the position of the cells.
He's calling them out twice, so
I think that probably just
boils down to preference.
I don't see a huge advantage one way or
the other.